[ADD] crm: new lead distribution report (#9915)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/crm/track_leads/lead_distribution_report.rst

first day of 2024.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/created-on.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add a Created On rule for the start of the year onward.

.. _crm/track_leads/sales-team:

Sales team
~~~~~~~~~~

Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add another row to the form, and choose :guilabel:`Sales Team` for
this rule's parameter. Then, click the second field of the new rule, and select :guilabel:`contains`
from the drop-down menu. Selecting this operator filters for any records that contain the words in
the third, rightmost field.

.. tip::
   For certain pre-determined, limited choices like a sales team, the :guilabel:`is in` operator
   helps make for an easier and more accurate selection, via a drop-down menu in the third field,
   instead of risking a typo or incorrect value in the text box field that accompanies the
   :guilabel:`contains` operator.

In this third field, enter the name of the desired sales team(s) that are to be included in the
report. It is important for all :guilabel:`contains` argument values to be specific enough and
spelled correctly as they exist in Odoo, otherwise this risks returning multiple (or zero) values.

> .. image:: lead_distribution_report/sales-team-location.png
>   :align: center
>   :alt: Use Sales Team to filter the location the lead is associated with.

Reviewer: Attribute alignment
```suggestion
.. image:: lead_distribution_report/sales-team-location.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Use Sales Team to filter the location the lead is associated with.
```

========================
Lead distribution report
========================

A *lead distribution report* can be used to see if active leads are being assigned equitably
across sales members. It can also be used to view the distribution of good or :doc:`quality leads
<quality_leads_report>`, and see how frequently each salesperson is receiving (and keeping) leads.

Lead distribution reports can be run each week to help keep salespeople on track, while
providing them with ample good leads. These reports can also be used to see whether sales members
are staying productive, if good leads are being lost too often by one salesperson, and what
percentage of good leads are being retained overall.

Create lead distribution reports
================================

To create a lead distribution report, first navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app --> Reporting -->
Pipeline`, which reveals the :guilabel:`Pipeline Analysis` dashboard.

Remove all the default filters in the search bar at the top of the page. Doing so
displays data related to *all* leads.

> Custom filters can now be added by clicking the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)`
> icon, to the right of the search bar, to reveal a drop-down menu of search and filter
> options.

Reviewer: Suggestion to add references to these sections, not mandatory but could be useful :)
```suggestion
:ref:`Custom filters <search/custom-filters>` can now be added by clicking the :icon:`fa-caret-down`
:guilabel:`(down caret)` icon, to the right of the search bar, to reveal a drop-down menu of search
and filter options.
```

> Three columns are displayed: :guilabel:`Filters`, :guilabel:`Group By`, and
> :guilabel:`Favorites`. To begin, navigate to the bottom of the :guilabel:`Filters` column, and click
> :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter`. This opens an :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` pop-up window, where the
> essential filters can be added one at a time.

Reviewer: Up to you!
```suggestion
Three columns are displayed: :ref:`Filters <search/filters>`, :ref:`Group By <search/group>`, and
:ref:`Favorites <search/favorites>`. To begin, navigate to the bottom of the :guilabel:`Filters`
column, and click :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter`. This opens an :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` pop-up
window, where the essential filters can be added one at a time.
```

.. _crm/track_leads/essential-filters:

Essential filters
-----------------

The following filter conditions are used to create a basic lead distribution report. Together they
gather all leads created within a certain timespan that have an associated contact method and have
been assigned to a sales team.

Lead creation date
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click the first field, under :guilabel:`Match any of the following rules:`, that has the value
:guilabel:`Country` in it. In the popover that appears, type `Created on` in the search bar, or
scroll to search through the list to locate and select it.

Then, in the second field of that row, select :guilabel:`>=` from the drop-down menu. This operator
**only** includes values greater than (or equal to) the value in the third, rightmost field.

The third field on the :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` pop-up window should contain the earliest date
leads are selected from.

For example, setting `01/01/2024 00:00:00` only includes leads created from, and including, the
first day of 2024.

> .. image:: lead_distribution_report/created-on.png
>   :align: center
>   :alt: Add a Created On rule for the start of the year onward.

Reviewer: Attribute alignment
```suggestion
.. image:: lead_distribution_report/created-on.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add a Created On rule for the start of the year onward.
```

this rule's parameter. Then, click the second field of the new rule, and select :guilabel:`contains`
from the drop-down menu. Selecting this operator filters for any records that contain the words in
the third, rightmost field.

.. tip::
   For certain pre-determined, limited choices like a sales team, the :guilabel:`is in` operator
   helps make for an easier and more accurate selection, via a drop-down menu in the third field,
   instead of risking a typo or incorrect value in the text box field that accompanies the
   :guilabel:`contains` operator.

In this third field, enter the name of the desired sales team(s) that are to be included in the
report. It is important for all :guilabel:`contains` argument values to be specific enough and
spelled correctly as they exist in Odoo, otherwise this risks returning multiple (or zero) values.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/sales-team-location.png
  :align: center
  :alt: Use Sales Team to filter the location the lead is associated with.

.. important::
   By adding more than one rule to the form, a new option emerges at the top of the pop-up window

>    above all the filters, to specify whether :guilabel:`any` :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down
>    caret)` or :guilabel:`all` :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` of the conditions
>    should match. This distinction is important to set correctly, as it impacts the driving logic of
>    how the filters return data.

Reviewer: In relation to @StraubCreative's [comment](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/9915/files#r1696099002), there is no need to accompany an icon with it's descriptor/fallback if the UI element is already accompanied by text.

In this case, `any 🔽` and `all 🔽` have the text "any" or "all". So no need for the `(down caret)` descriptor :)
```suggestion
   above all the filters, to specify whether :guilabel:`any` :icon:`fa-caret-down` or
   :guilabel:`all` :icon:`fa-caret-down` of the conditions should match. This distinction is
   important to set correctly, as it impacts the driving logic of how the filters return data.
```

> Click the default :guilabel:`any` :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` menu item and be
> sure the :guilabel:`all` :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` option is chosen instead.
> This setting will **only** show records that match *all* the rules contained inside the form.

Reviewer: Remove icon descriptors on the icon elements that are accompanied by text
```suggestion
Click the default :guilabel:`any` :icon:`fa-caret-down` menu item and be sure the :guilabel:`all`
:icon:`fa-caret-down` option is chosen instead. This setting will **only** show records that match
*all* the rules contained inside the form.
```

.. _crm/track_leads/phone-number:

Contact method
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::
   The instruction below is not necessary, however, it's highly recommended to add a set contact
   value to the report's search criteria. A lot of spam, duplicate, or low quality leads can easily
   be screened out of the report simply by adding either a set :guilabel:`Phone` or
   :guilabel:`Email` rule.

Add another :guilabel:`New rule` to the form and set the first field to the first field to
:guilabel:`Phone`. Then, select :guilabel:`is set` from the drop-down menu in the second field.
Selecting this operator **only** filters for records that have a phone number associated with the
lead.

Alternatively (or in addition to the above rule), click :guilabel:`New rule` and set the first field
to :guilabel:`Email`. Then, select :guilabel:`is set` from the drop-down menu in the second field.

These rules add only leads with an associated contact method to the report.

.. _crm/track_leads/active-status:

Active status
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Click the :icon:`fa-sitemap` :guilabel:`(Branch)` icon to the right of the `Phone is set` line, to
> add a new rule that branches from the rules above.

Reviewer: To match the icon's tooltip text exactly 
```suggestion
Click the :icon:`fa-sitemap` :guilabel:`(Add branch)` icon to the right of the `Phone is set` line,
to add a new rule that branches from the rules above.
```

> Two horizontal sets of fields appear below a line showing :guilabel:`any of:` with a
> :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` icon. This setting filters for
> records that match **any** of the rules contained inside. This uses the same logic as an OR (|)
> logical operator.

Reviewer: Remove icon descriptors on the icon elements that are accompanied by text.

Suggesting to add `|` literal formatting to the OR operator, just because it looks better IMO 😄
```suggestion
Two horizontal sets of fields appear below a line showing :guilabel:`any` :icon:`fa-caret-down`
:guilabel:`of:` option. This setting filters for records that match **any** of the rules contained
inside. This uses the same logic as an OR (`|`) logical operator.
```

Set the first field to :guilabel:`Active`. Then, select :guilabel:`is set` in the next field.

> Next, click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`(New Rule)` button next to :guilabel:`Active is set` to
> create a new line of fields beneath it.

Reviewer: To match the icon's tooltip text exactly
```suggestion
Next, click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`(Add New Rule)` button next to :guilabel:`Active is set`
to create a new line of fields beneath it.
```

Set the first field to :guilabel:`Active`. Then, select :guilabel:`is not set` in the next field.

> .. image:: lead_distribution_report/active-set.png
>   :align: center
>   :alt: Use Active to include active status in the report.

Reviewer: Alignment 
```suggestion
.. image:: lead_distribution_report/active-set.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Use Active to include active status in the report.
```

This rule adds the activity status of the lead to the report.

> .. note::
>   Active status is an important filter to include when creating a lead distribution report because
>   it includes **all** leads regardless of won/lost or active/inactive status in the report. This
>   provides a comprehensive view of all the leads assigned to each sales member.

Reviewer: Alignment
```suggestion
.. note::
   Active status is an important filter to include when creating a lead distribution report because
   it includes **all** leads regardless of won/lost or active/inactive status in the report. This
   provides a comprehensive view of all the leads assigned to each sales member.
```

Group by
~~~~~~~~

Once all filters are set, click the :guilabel:`Add` button to add these filters to the search bar.
To have the report grouped appropriately, click the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)`
icon, to the right of the search bar, and click :guilabel:`Salesperson` in the :guilabel:`Group
By` section. All results are now grouped by the salesperson assigned to each lead.

Once the rules for the filter are set, click the purple :guilabel:`Confirm` button at the bottom of
the pop-up menu to save the custom filter and close the pop-up menu.

The :guilabel:`Pipeline Analysis` dashboard is now displayed again with each filter rule in the
search bar.

> Click the :icon:`fa-area-chart` :guilabel:`(Graph)` icon, to the right of the
> search bar, to view the report as a bar chart. Alternatively, click the :icon:`oi-view-list`
> :guilabel:`(List)` icon to view leads in a grouped list.

Reviewer: Fix early line break, not the end of the world, but it helps in reviewing/reading the RST :)
```suggestion
Click the :icon:`fa-area-chart` :guilabel:`(Graph)` icon, to the right of the search bar, to view
the report as a bar chart. Alternatively, click the :icon:`oi-view-list` :guilabel:`(List)` icon to
view leads in a grouped list.
```

> .. tip::
>   To save the filter so it can easily be re-applied, click the :guilabel:`Save current search`
>   button in the :guilabel:`Favorites` section of the search bar drop-down menu.
> 
>   Next, type a name for the filter in the text box below. Check the :guilabel:`Shared` checkbox to
>   have the filter shared with any user with access to the pipeline. Finally, click the purple
>   :guilabel:`Save` button below to save the filter.
> 
>   The filter will now appear with the name it was given under the :guilabel:`Favorites` section of
>   the drop-down menu and can be re-applied by clicking on it.

Reviewer: Alignment
```suggestion
.. tip::
   To save the filter so it can easily be re-applied, click the :guilabel:`Save current search`
   button in the :guilabel:`Favorites` section of the search bar drop-down menu.

   Next, type a name for the filter in the text box below. Check the :guilabel:`Shared` checkbox to
   have the filter shared with any user with access to the pipeline. Finally, click the purple
   :guilabel:`Save` button below to save the filter.

   The filter will now appear with the name it was given under the :guilabel:`Favorites` section of
   the drop-down menu and can be re-applied by clicking on it.
```

Filter for quality leads
------------------------

The following additional conditions are provided as an example of a *good*, but *not comprehensive*,
set of rules for finding quality leads. These filters should be applied on top of the
:ref:`crm/track_leads/essential-filters` in the order specified to achieve a heavily-detailed
filter.

> - **Referred-by:** Filter for referrals, such as by appointment or sales member.
> 
> - **Source:** Filter for specific source UTMs, such as Facebook or LinkedIn.
> 
> - **Notes:** Filter for internal notes.
> 
> - **Tags:** Filter for categorical tags.
> 
> - **Email:** Filter for specific email domains, such as gmail.com or yahoo.com.
> 
> - **Salesperson:** Filter for leads associated with certain sales members.

Reviewer: No need to have an empty line between bullets of the same level :)
```suggestion
- **Referred-by:** Filter for referrals, such as by appointment or sales member.
- **Source:** Filter for specific source UTMs, such as Facebook or LinkedIn.
- **Notes:** Filter for internal notes.
- **Tags:** Filter for categorical tags.
- **Email:** Filter for specific email domains, such as gmail.com or yahoo.com.
- **Salesperson:** Filter for leads associated with certain sales members.
```

These conditions can be added, removed, or modified to best fit the desired information in the
report.

> .. seealso::
>   `Additional rules for quality leads <https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/applications/sales/
>   crm/track_leads/quality_leads_report.html#add-rules-for-quality-leads>`_
> 
> .. seealso::
>    :doc:`../../../essentials/search`

Reviewer: No need to have two seealso's, can just do a bullet list in a single seealso :)

Secondly, instead of using an external link formatting to reference a specific section within a doc, you can use the `:ref:` (reference) role, to reference a custom anchor in another document. 

Custom anchors are _global_ throughout the documentation, so once a custom anchor is created, it can be referenced throughout any doc just by using the custom anchor's name in a `:ref:` tag.

More info can be found here: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/master/contributing/documentation/rst_cheat_sheet.html#custom-anchors
```suggestion
   - :ref:`quality_leads_report/add-quality-rules`
   - :doc:`../../../essentials/search`
```

Create a custom filter
----------------------

The following conditions are provided as an example of a good but not comprehensive set of rules for
finding good leads:

#. Lead creation date
#. Sales team location
#. Contains a phone number
#. An active state is set
#. Referred by appointment
#. Source is livechat
#. Notes are set
#. Tagged with a size from 10-20 or 20-50
#. Email does not contain bad addresses
#. An active salesperson is set

Any number of conditions can be added, removed, or modified to best fit the desired information in
the report.

Add lead creation date
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click the first field on the left under :guilabel:`Match any of the following rules:` with the value
:guilabel:`Country` in it. Type :guilabel:`Date` in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar, or scroll to
search through the list to locate it. Then, click the next field and select :guilabel:`>=` from the
drop-down menu. This operator will include only values greater than or equal to the value in the
rightmost field.

The rightmost field should contain the earliest date leads are selected from. For example,

> setting `01/01/2024 00:00:05` will include only leads created from, and including, the first day of

Reviewer 2: is there a reason for the 00:00:05? could just as easily be 00:00:00, right?

In this third field, enter the name of the desired sales teams. For example, setting `us direct sf
northam` will include only sales teams assigned to the U.S., direct, San Francisco, and North
America.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/sales-team-location.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Use Sales Team to filter the location the lead is associated with.

Add phone number
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add a new rule to the filter. Set the first field to
:guilabel:`Phone`. Then, click the next field and select :guilabel:`is set` from the drop-down menu.
Selecting this operator will filter only for records that have a phone number associated with the
lead.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/phone-set.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report only leads with an associated phone number with the Phone field.

Add active status
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click the :guilabel:`Branch` icon to the right of :guilabel:`Phone is set` to add a new rule that
branches from the rules above.

Two horizontal sets of fields will appear below a line showing
:guilabel:`all of:` with a :icon:`fa-caret-down` down arrow. Click the down arrow, then select

> :guilabel:`any` from the list.

Reviewer 2: When I do this the branch goes away, and falls in line with the other Rule lines above it. Is this what is intended? If so, I'm a bit unclear why the Branch needs to be created, and not just another rule. Maybe it can stay on the default 'all of' setting to keep the Branch look/functionality looking more unique? What do you think?

Set the first field to :guilabel:`Active`. Then, click the rightmost field and select

> :guilabel:`is set` from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ![Screenshot 2024-06-24 130604](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/73958186/2b5e0b1e-4e33-4254-822e-6324941746cd)

During my run-through, I had to keep an option selected in the second and third fields...there wasn't just an "is set" choice in the third field... might be worth a quick revisit/rewrite of this portion

Reviewer 2: UPDATE: so, I've been using a 17.0 runbot for this review, because that's what this PR is listed as targeting... however, I just tried out this flow in the 17.2 runbot, and there *is* an accessible option like this in the second field.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/add-branch.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click the second button to the right of phone is set labeled add branch.

> Next, click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` button next to :guilabel:`Active is set` to
> create a new set of fields. Set the first field to :guilabel:`Active`. Then, click the next field
> and select :guilabel:`is not set` from the drop-down menu. This rule will add the activity status of
> the lead to the report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` button next to :guilabel:`Active is set` to
create a new line of fields beneath it.

Set the first field to :guilabel:`Active`. Then, click the next field and select :guilabel:`is not set` from the drop-down menu. This rule will add the activity status of the lead to the report.
```
This second part of this needs to be rewritten. When I click the New Rule button next to active is set, a new rule line appears, that already duplicates the entries from the line above it -- meaning, with those fields mostly filled in, all I'd have to is change the third field to 'not set' to accomplish this..

please look into this, and revise, as needed. if you have any questions, don't hesitate to let me know.

Reviewer 2: Also, when we clicked Branch earlier, that reveals 2 new lines, one of which we altered (Active), but the other is still on the default 'Country' option, is that by design? Might be beneficial to use that line or mention why its being overlooked, so as to avoid any confusion with the reader.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/active-set.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Use Active to include active status in the report.

Reviewer 2: even in 17.2 runbots I'm not seeing this...

Add referred by
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Click the :guilabel:`Branch` icon to the right of :guilabel:`any of:` field to add a new set of

Reviewer 2: I'm learning, via a few different 17.0 runbots, that this isn't accessible UNLESS the initial branch was left on 'all (downward arrow)' -- changing it, effectively, removes the branch and this option simply isn't possible.

w/ 'all' intact:
![Screenshot 2024-06-24 131831](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/73958186/6837425a-3544-45f6-ae1c-131f3e813a70)

when changed to 'any' as you've instructed:
![Screenshot 2024-06-24 131850](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/73958186/ce58f2b1-5154-4ccf-8738-d02d2a9693e0)

rules that branches from the rules above and another horizontal set of fields will appear below.

> Change :guilabel:`all of:` to :guilabel:`any of:`.

Reviewer 2: again, i think this portion needs to be revisited, and possibly reworked. if not reworked, some needed clarification is in order to help simplify things to the reader.

Reviewer 2: this is how my pop-up looks at the moment.
![Screenshot 2024-06-24 132621](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/73958186/29805812-9f26-40ba-9e76-a8bff22cfa34)

> Next, set the first field to :guilabel:`Referred By`. In the field to the right, select

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, set the first field to :guilabel:`Referred By`. In the second field, select
```

> :guilabel:`contains` from the drop-down menu. In the last field, type `appointment`. This will add

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`contains` from the drop-down menu. In the last field, type `appointment`. This adds
```

any leads that were referred by an appointment.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/referred-by.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add referred by as a branch to filter appointments.

Add source
~~~~~~~~~~

> Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` button next to :guilabel:`Referred by appointment`.

Reviewer 2: what about the second line of the newly-created 'branch' that's still on the default 'country' at this point? Does that need to be mentioned here?

> Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` button next to :guilabel:`Referred by appointment`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` button next to the line for `Referred by appointment`.
```

> Set the first field to :guilabel:`Source`. Click the next field and select :guilabel:`contains` from
> the drop-down menu. Select the next field to the right and type `livechat`. This rule will add any
> leads that came from livechat to the report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the first field to :guilabel:`Source`. Select :guilabel:`contains` from
the drop-down menu in the second field. Type `livechat` in the third field. This rule adds any
leads that came from livechat to the report.
```

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/add-source.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Adding a rule for source to filter for livechat.

Add notes
~~~~~~~~~

> Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` button next to :guilabel:`Source contains livechat`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` button next to line for `Source contains livechat`.
```

> Set the first field to `Notes`. Click the next field and select :guilabel:`contains` from the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the first field to :guilabel:`Notes`. Click the second field, and select :guilabel:`contains` from the
```

> drop-down menu. Select the next field to the right and type `mrp`. Click the :icon:`fa-plus`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
drop-down menu. Type `mrp` in the third field.

Click the :icon:`fa-plus`
```

> :guilabel:`New Rule` icon next to :guilabel:`Notes contains mrp` and add a new rule for Notes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`New Rule` icon next to the line for `Notes contains mrp`, and add a new rule for notes
```

containing `stock`. Repeat the process to create new rules containing the following terms:

#. purchase
#. plm
#. crm
#. sales
#. project
#. fsm

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/add-notes.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add rules that contain the 8 terms listed above.

> This will include any leads with the above terms in the attached notes to the report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This includes any leads with the above terms in the attached notes to the report.
```

Add tags
~~~~~~~~

> Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` icon next to :guilabel:`Notes contains fsm`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` icon next to line for `Notes contains fsm`.
```

> Set the first field to `Tags`. Click the next field and select :guilabel:`contains` from the
> drop-down menu. Select the next field to the right and type `20`. This will add any leads that are
> tagged as a size of 5-20 or 20-50.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the first field to `Tags`. Select :guilabel:`contains` from the
drop-down menu in the second field. Then, type `20` in the third field. This adds any leads that are
tagged as a size of 5-20 or 20-50.
```

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/add-tags.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add a rule for "20" to filter size.

Add email
~~~~~~~~~

Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add a new rule outside the :guilabel:`any of:` group. Set the first
field to :guilabel:`Email`. In the next field to the right, select :guilabel:`does not contain` from

> the drop-down menu. Next, type `hotmail` into the rightmost field.

Reviewer 2: This should be rewritten to enhance the clarity of the instruction a bit

Repeat the previous steps to add rules for the following contents:

#. aol.com
#. icloud.com
#. yahoo

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/add-email.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add rules to filter out the above four email domains.

Add salesperson
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add a new rule. Click the first field and locate
> :guilabel:`salesperson`. Click the :icon:`fa-chevron-right` chevron button to the right. A new list

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add a new rule. Click the first field, and locate
:guilabel:`Salesperson`. Click the :icon:`fa-chevron-right` :guilabel:`(right chevron)` button to the right. A new list
```

> of attributes relating to salespeople will appear. Select :guilabel:`Active` from the list. In the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of salespeople attributes appears. Select :guilabel:`Active` from the list. In the
```

> next field to the right, select :guilabel:`is` from the drop-down menu. In the right-most drop-down

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
second field, select :guilabel:`is` from the drop-down menu. In the third drop-down
```

<quality_leads_report>`, and see how frequently each salesperson is receiving (and keeping) leads.

Lead distribution reports can be run each week to help keep salespeople on track, while
providing them with ample good leads. These reports can also be used to see whether sales members
are staying productive, if good leads are being lost too often by one salesperson, and what
percentage of good leads are being retained overall.

Create lead distribution reports
================================

To create a lead distribution report, first navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app --> Reporting -->
Pipeline`, which reveals the :guilabel:`Pipeline Analysis` dashboard.

Remove all the default filters in the search bar at the top of the page. Doing so
displays data related to *all* leads.

Custom filters can now be added by clicking the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)`
icon, to the right of the search bar, to reveal a drop-down menu of search and filter
options.

Three columns are displayed: :guilabel:`Filters`, :guilabel:`Group By`, and
:guilabel:`Favorites`. To begin, navigate to the bottom of the :guilabel:`Filters` column, and click

> :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter`. This opens an :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` pop-up window, where a
> custom filter can be created.

Reviewer 3: suggestion so it's still meaningful but less redundant

```suggestion
:guilabel:`Add Custom Filter`. This opens an :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` pop-up window, where the
essential filters can be added one at a time.
```

.. _crm/track_leads/essential-filters:

Essential filters
-----------------

The following filter conditions are used to create a basic lead distribution report. Together they
gather all leads created within a certain timespan that have an associated contact method and have
been assigned to a sales team.

Lead creation date
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click the first field, under :guilabel:`Match any of the following rules:`, that has the value
:guilabel:`Country` in it. In the popover that appears, type `Created on` in the search bar, or
scroll to search through the list to locate and select it.

> Then, in the second field of the :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` pop-up window, select :guilabel:`>=`

Reviewer 3: more simply, and specifically
```suggestion
Then, in the second field of that row, select :guilabel:`>=`
```

from the drop-down menu. This operator **only** includes values greater than (or equal to) the value
in the third, rightmost field.

The third field on the :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` pop-up window should contain the earliest date
leads are selected from.

For example, setting `01/01/2024 00:00:00` only includes leads created from, and including, the
first day of 2024.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/created-on.png
  :align: center
  :alt: Add a Created On rule for the start of the year onward.

.. _crm/track_leads/sales-team:

Sales team
~~~~~~~~~~

> Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add a new set of rule fields to the form. Click the first field for
> the new rule, and set it to :guilabel:`Sales Team`. Then, click the second field of the new rule,

Reviewer 3: Suggestion to be more succinct
```suggestion
Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add another row to the form, and choose :guilabel:`Sales Team` for this rule's parameter. Then, click the second field of the new rule,
```

   :guilabel:`contains` operator.

In this third field, enter the name of the desired sales team(s) that are to be included in the
report. It is important for all :guilabel:`contains` argument values to be specific enough and
spelled correctly as they exist in Odoo, otherwise this risks returning multiple (or zero) values.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/sales-team-location.png
  :align: center
  :alt: Use Sales Team to filter the location the lead is associated with.

.. important::
   By adding more than one rule to the form, a new option emerges at the top of the pop-up window
   above all the filters, to specify whether :guilabel:`any` :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down
   caret)` or :guilabel:`all` :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` of the conditions
   should match. This distinction is important to set correctly, as it impacts the driving logic of
   how the filters return data.

Click the default :guilabel:`any` :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` menu item and be
sure the :guilabel:`all` :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` option is chosen instead.

> This setting will **only** show records that match *all* the rules contained inside the form.

Reviewer 3: @samueljlieber for this section can you take a look at the HTML rendering...the (down caret) fallback label seems to be a bit much for this particular usage (e.g. a filters form), wdyt?

------------------------

The following additional conditions are provided as an example of a *good*, but *not comprehensive*,
set of rules for finding quality leads. These filters should be applied on top of the
:ref:`crm/track_leads/essential-filters` in the order specified to achieve a heavily-detailed
filter.

- **Referred-by:** Filter for referrals, such as by appointment or sales member.

- **Source:** Filter for specific source UTMs, such as Facebook or LinkedIn.

- **Notes:** Filter for internal notes.

- **Tags:** Filter for categorical tags.

- **Email:** Filter for specific email domains, such as gmail.com or yahoo.com.

- **Salesperson:** Filter for leads associated with certain sales members.

These conditions can be added, removed, or modified to best fit the desired information in
the report.

.. seealso::
  `Additional rules for quality leads <https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/applications/sales/
  crm/track_leads/quality_leads_report.html#add-rules-for-quality-leads>`_

.. tip::

  Once the rules for the filter are set, click the purple :guilabel:`Confirm` button at the
  bottom of the pop-up menu to save the custom filter and close the pop-up menu.

>   .. image:: lead_distribution_report/confirm-filter.png

Reviewer 3: the rule in this screenshot was not covered in this doc (might cause confusion)

    :align: center
    :alt: Click the confirm button to save the filter.

  The :guilabel:`Pipeline Analysis` dashboard is now displayed again with each filter rule in the

>   search bar. Click the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` icon, to the

Reviewer 3: Lines 186-195 might make for a better conclusion outside of the **Tip** admonition block. The "save current search" content is the actual **Tip**

  right of the search bar, to reveal a drop-down menu of search and filter options.

  Scroll to the bottom and click the :guilabel:`Save current search` button. Next, type a name for
  the filter in the text box below. Check the :guilabel:`Shared` checkbox to have the filter shared
  with any user with access to the pipeline. Finally, click the purple :guilabel:`Save` button below
  to save the filter.

  The filter will now appear with the name it was given under the :guilabel:`Favorites` section of
  the drop-down menu and can be re-applied by clicking on it.

View lead distribution reports
==============================

From the :guilabel:`Pipeline Analysis` dashboard, apply the filter created above in the search bar
if it does not appear in the search already. Next, click the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down
caret)` icon to expand the list and view leads.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/list-view.png
   :align: center
   :alt: List view will display all leads in a list format organized by the filter.

> 

Reviewer 3: Don't think this section is necessary?
After we click **Confirm** we get the output we want, this is enough right?

Also we can't use that screenshot (again do not use screenshots taken from internal DB). 

I *do* think showing an outputted view is useful tho with a saved filter, something like this (took from CRM tour):
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/133dfdf8-17f8-4a5c-b4eb-f09cd47d322d)

field.

In this third field, enter the name of the desired sales team(s). For example, setting `us direct sf
northam` **only** includes sales teams assigned to the U.S., direct, San Francisco, and North
America.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/sales-team-location.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Use Sales Team to filter the location the lead is associated with.

.. _phone-number:

3. Phone number
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add a new rule to the filter. Set the first field to
:guilabel:`Phone`. Then, select :guilabel:`is set` from the drop-down menu in the second field.
Selecting this operator **only** filters for records that have a phone number associated with the
lead.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/phone-set.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report only leads with an associated phone number with the Phone field.

.. _active-status:

4. Active status
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click the :guilabel:`Branch` icon to the right of `Phone is set` line, to add a new rule that
branches from the rules above.

Two horizontal sets of fields appear below a line showing :guilabel:`all of:` with a

> :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)`. Click the down caret, then select

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` icon. Click the icon, then select
```

:guilabel:`any` from the resulting list.

Set the first field to :guilabel:`Active`. Then, select :guilabel:`is set` in the next field.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/add-branch.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click the second button to the right of phone is set labeled add branch.

Next, click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` button next to :guilabel:`Active is set` to
create a new line of fields beneath it.

Set the first field to :guilabel:`Active`. Then, select :guilabel:`is not set` in the next field.

> This rule will add the activity status of the lead to the report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This rule adds the activity status of the lead to the report.
```

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/active-set.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Use Active to include active status in the report.

.. _referred-by:

> 1. Referred by

Reviewer 2: the numbers get a little off track here, if I'm not mistaken. worth looking into during your revision

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Click the :guilabel:`Branch` icon to the right of :guilabel:`any of:` field to add a new set of

Reviewer 2: may want to consider using an icon (fa-sitemap) to visually represent the branch icon

rules. These appear as a new line of fields on a separate branch from the rules above. Change
:guilabel:`all of:` to :guilabel:`any of:`.

Next, set the first field to :guilabel:`Referred By`. In the second field, select
:guilabel:`contains` from the drop-down menu. In the last field, type `appointment`. This adds
any leads that were referred by an appointment.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/referred-by.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add referred by as a branch to filter appointments.

.. _source:

> 1. Source

Reviewer 2: same thing re: numbers seeming out of sequence

~~~~~~~~~

Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` button next to the line for `Referred by
appointment`. Set the first field to :guilabel:`Source`. Select :guilabel:`contains` from the
drop-down menu in the second field. Type `livechat` in the third field. This rule adds any leads
that came from livechat to the report.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/add-source.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Adding a rule for source to filter for livechat.

.. _notes:

7. Notes
~~~~~~~~

Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` button next to line for `Source contains livechat`.
Set the first field to :guilabel:`Notes`. Click the second field, and select :guilabel:`contains`
from the drop-down menu. Type `mrp` in the third field.

> Click the :icon:`fa-plus`
> :guilabel:`New Rule` icon next to the line for `Notes contains mrp`, and add a new rule for notes
> containing `stock`. Repeat the process to create new rules containing the following terms:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` icon next to the line for `Notes contains mrp`, and add a new
rule for notes containing `stock`. Repeat the process to create new rules containing the following terms:
```

This includes any leads with the above terms in the attached notes to the report.

.. _tags:

8. Tags
~~~~~~~

Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`New Rule` icon next to line for `Notes contains fsm`.
Set the first field to `Tags`. Select :guilabel:`contains` from the drop-down menu in the second
field. Then, type `20` in the third field. This adds any leads that are tagged as a size of 5-20 or
20-50.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/add-tags.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add a rule for "20" to filter size.

.. _email:

9. Email
~~~~~~~~

Click :guilabel:`New rule` at the bottom of the pop-up menu to add a new rule. This new rule is
created outside the :guilabel:`any of:` group. Set the first field to :guilabel:`Email`. Select
:guilabel:`does not contain` from the drop-down menu in the next field. Next, type `hotmail` into
the rightmost field.

Repeat the previous steps to add rules for the following contents:

#. aol.com
#. icloud.com
#. yahoo

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/add-email.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add rules to filter out the above four email domains.

.. _salesperson:

10. Salesperson
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add a new rule. Click the first field, and locate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add a new rule. Click the first field, then locate and select
```

leads are selected from.

For example, setting `01/01/2024 00:00:00` only includes leads created from, and including, the
first day of 2024.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/created-on.png
  :align: center
  :alt: Add a Created On rule for the start of the year onward.

.. _team-location:

2. Sales team location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add a new set of rule fields to the :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter`
pop-up window. Click the first field for the new rule, and set it to :guilabel:`Sales Team`. Then,
click the second field of the new rule, and select :guilabel:`contains` from the drop-down menu.
Selecting this operator filters for any records that contain the words in the third, rightmost
field.

In this third field, enter the name of the desired sales team(s). For example, setting `us direct sf
northam` **only** includes sales teams with titles containing *US*, *direct*, *San Francisco*, and
*North America*.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/sales-team-location.png
  :align: center
  :alt: Use Sales Team to filter the location the lead is associated with.

> By adding this new rule, a new line appears at the top of the pop-up menu showing :guilabel:`Match
> any of:` with a :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` icon.

Reviewer 3: I'd highlight this in an admonition to really make it stand out (it gets missed all of the time 😅 )

```suggestion
.. important::
   By adding more than one rule to the form, a new option emerges at the top of the pop-up window
   above all the filters, to specify whether :guilabel:`any` :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down
   caret)` or :guilabel:`all` :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` of the conditions
   should match. This distinction is important to set correctly, as it impacts the driving logic of
   how the filters return data.
```

> Click the icon, then select :guilabel:`all` from the resulting list. This setting causes the filter
> to **only** show records that match all the rules contained inside. This uses the same logic as an

Reviewer 3: Formatting, specificity 
```suggestion
Click the default :guilabel:`any` :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` menu item and be
sure the :guilabel:`all` :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` option is chosen instead.
This setting will **only** show records that match *all* the rules contained inside the form. This
uses the same logic as an
```

AND (&) logical operator.

> .. _phone-number:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. _crm/track_leads/phone-number:
```

> 3. Contact method

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Contact method
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer 3: suggested addition here.
```suggestion

.. note::
   The instruction below is not necessary, however, it's highly recommended to add a set contact
   value to the report's search criteria. A lot of spam, duplicate, or low quality leads can easily
   be screened out of the report simply by adding either a set :guilabel:`Phone` or
   :guilabel:`Email` rule.
   
```

> Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add a new rule to the filter. Set the first field to

Reviewer 3: Another way to write this, so you're using the gui in active instruction (it's self explanatory what it does).
 
```suggestion
Add another :guilabel:`New rule` to the form and set the first field to
```

:guilabel:`Phone`. Then, select :guilabel:`is set` from the drop-down menu in the second field.
Selecting this operator **only** filters for records that have a phone number associated with the
lead.

> Click :guilabel:`New rule` and set the first field to :guilabel:`Email`. Then, select :guilabel:`is

Reviewer 3: Context
```suggestion
Alternatively (or in addition to the above rule), click :guilabel:`New rule` and set the first field
to :guilabel:`Email`. Then, select :guilabel:`is
```

set` from the drop-down menu in the second field.

These rules add only leads with an associated contact method to the report.

> .. _active-status:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. _crm/track_leads/active-status:
```

> 1. Active status

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Active status
```

Next, click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`(New Rule)` button next to :guilabel:`Active is set` to
create a new line of fields beneath it.

Set the first field to :guilabel:`Active`. Then, select :guilabel:`is not set` in the next field.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/active-set.png
  :align: center
  :alt: Use Active to include active status in the report.

This rule adds the activity status of the lead to the report.

.. note::
  Active status is an important filter to include when creating a lead distribution report because
  it includes **all** leads regardless of won/lost or active/inactive status in the report. This
  provides a comprehensive view of all the leads assigned to each sales member.

Filter for quality leads
------------------------

The following additional conditions are provided as an example of a *good*, but *not comprehensive*,
set of rules for finding quality leads. These filters should be applied on top of the
:ref:`essential-filters` in the order specified to achieve a heavily-detailed filter.

:ref:`referred-by`

:ref:`source`

:ref:`notes`

:ref:`tags`

:ref:`email`

> :ref:`salesperson`

Reviewer 3: I see what you did here however I disagree with the presentation and most of the information in the corresponding sections.

In order to convey these extras quickly, a bullet list with brief list item descriptions for each value would suffice. At the end can add a **see also** pointing to the [additional rules for quality leads](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/applications/sales/crm/track_leads/quality_leads_report.html#add-rules-for-quality-leads) which covers those values adequately in more detail.

These conditions can be added, removed, or modified to best fit the desired information in the
report.

.. _referred-by:

1. Referred by
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`(New Rule)` button next to :guilabel:`Active is not set` to
create a new line of fields beneath it.

Next, set the first field to :guilabel:`Referred By`. In the second field, select

> :guilabel:`contains` from the drop-down menu. In the last field, type `appointment`.

Reviewer 3: The value of `appointment` is only valuable to us because it's a string that gets passed from our internal Appointments application. It might be a different value or not a relevant rule to include (regardless of the filter's value) depending on the database. I wouldn't frame this as a concrete instruction to follow, but more as a "hey this is an example of a Referred By  rule, in this case for a business that leverages the **Appointments** app and tags those leads accordingly."

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/referred-by.png
  :align: center
  :alt: Add referred by as a branch to filter appointments.

This rule adds any leads that were referred by an appointment to the report.

.. _source:

2. Source
~~~~~~~~~

Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`(New Rule)` button next to the line for `Referred by

> appointment`.

Reviewer 3: better to say "create a new rule" instead of "create a new rule exactly in this way" (some users won't like or use Referred by filter)

Next, set the first field to :guilabel:`Source`. Select :guilabel:`contains` from the drop-down menu

> in the second field. Type `livechat` in the third field.

Reviewer 3: same feedback as Referred by:

`livechat` is a value that's stored in our internal Odoo database from leads that come from the **Live Chat** module. That value isn't going to be relevant for other databases that either a) don't use Live Chat module or b) don't have that set as their value (crazy example, a database could set their **Source** UTM for Live Chat app as `porkchop` if they wanted to).

You're on the right track by mentioning **Source** as an additional filter but are being too specific in the values which are only relevant to us.

My feedback for the following sections is similar: 
- the parameters are correct however the values are too specific / not useful to the customer (only useful for us internally) 
- I don't think we need the sections + :ref: links anyway, and can just point to _Quality leads report_ documentation instead as a **seealso**, which already includes all of the relevant information around additional quality lead filters to add.

This rule adds any leads that came from livechat to the report.

.. _notes:

3. Notes
~~~~~~~~

Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`(New Rule)` button next to line for `Source contains livechat`.

Next, set the first field to :guilabel:`Notes`. Click the second field, and select
:guilabel:`contains` from the drop-down menu. Type `mrp` in the third field.

Click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`(New Rule)` icon next to the line for `Notes contains mrp`, and
add a new rule for notes containing `stock`. Repeat the process to create new rules containing the
following terms:

#. purchase
#. plm
#. crm
#. sales
#. project

> #. fsm

Reviewer 3: Pretty good example where we're being too specific with the values instead of sticking to the parameter (**Notes** in this case). These particular values aren't useful to any other database except ours because they are coded into the apps people choose when they sign up for a free trial ^_^

:guilabel:`does not contain` from the drop-down menu in the next field. Next, type `hotmail` into
the rightmost field.

Repeat the previous steps to add rules for the following contents:

#. aol.com
#. icloud.com
#. yahoo

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/add-email.png
  :align: center
  :alt: Add rules to filter out the above four email domains.

This rule filters out any undesired email addresses from the report.

.. _salesperson:

6. Salesperson
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click :guilabel:`New rule` to add a new rule. Click the first field, then locate and select
:guilabel:`Salesperson`. Click the :icon:`fa-chevron-right` :guilabel:`(right chevron)` button to
the right. A new list of salespeople attributes appears. Select :guilabel:`Active` from the list.
In the second field, select :guilabel:`is` from the drop-down menu. In the third drop-down menu,
select :guilabel:`set`.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/add-salesperson.png
  :align: center
  :alt: Add a salesperson's activity status to ensure an active salesperson is selected.

This rule ensures only leads with an active salesperson are added to the report.

> Save the filter settings

Reviewer 3: This section can be more concise as a **.. tip::** admonition block I think?

========================

Now that all the rules for the filter are set, click the purple :guilabel:`Confirm` button at the
bottom of the pop-up menu to save the custom filter and close the pop-up menu.

.. image:: lead_distribution_report/confirm-filter.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click the confirm button to save the filter.

The :guilabel:`Pipeline Analysis` dashboard is now displayed again with each filter rule in the
search bar. Click the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down caret)` icon, to the right of the
search bar, to reveal a drop-down menu of search and filter options.

Scroll to the bottom and click the :guilabel:`Save current search` button. Next, type a name for the
filter in the text box below. Check the :guilabel:`Shared` checkbox to have the filter shared with
any user with access to the pipeline. Finally, click the purple :guilabel:`Save` button below to
save the filter.

The filter will now appear with the name it was given under the :guilabel:`Favorites` section of the
drop-down menu and can be re-applied by clicking on it.

> View lead distribution reports

Reviewer 3: I might have missed it but after adding the custom Filters it's necessary to do Group Bys afterwards.
